Adds blogpost on hello-world (#71)
kinbiko/mentoring: students/perrymant/blog-01-hello-world-deconstructed.md

So with our `Frog` and `Fly` classes, the file and class structure will look like this:
```java
+---Frog.java--------+     +---Fly.java------------------+
|                    |     |                             |
|  class Frog {      |     |  class Fly {                |
|      int eyes = 2; |     |      void irritateHuman() {  |
|                    |     |                             |
|  }                 |     |      }                      |
|                    |     |  }                          |
|                    |     |                             |
+--------------------+     +-----------------------------+
```

I've taken the liberty to give the `Frog` the attribute of two `eyes`, and I've given the `Fly` the `irritateHuman()` behaviour.
So you see how each class is contained in its own file, and the class and filename are the same.
This is useful because it keeps everything that is specific to the `Frog` in one place, and everything that is specific to the `Fly` in it's own place, which can help us out in the long run by making our overall program more navigatable and readable.

> This concept is refered to as `encapsulation`, allowing these related ideas to be put together into one unit.

Reviewer: I quite like this wording to explain encapsulation. I think it's perhaps a more important point than the more common explanation of encapsulation, although I do think it's worth mentioning that here too. The way I generally hear it being described is "preventing unrelated things from having access".

This last one is the default modifier, that is to say that when you don't add any of the other modifier keywords, then the class is automatically designated as `package-private`, which is what the example `Frog` class above is.
These access modifiers apply not only to classes, but also to methods, constructors and data members.

![Modifiers](assets/blog-01-hello-world-deconstructed/accessmod.png)
[credit](https://stackoverflow.com/a/215505)

#### 1. `public` access modifier

The access modifier `public` is fairly self-descriptive in that it makes the class publicly availiable to other classes.

An important thing to note is that a file may only have one `public class`.
So it's OK to have other classes in the file, just as long as they have a different access modifier, which means I can put in a `package private` (see below #3) class called `FrogFeed` in the same file as the `Frog`:
```java
+---Frog.java---------------+
|                           |
|  public class Frog {      |
|  }                        |
|                           |
|  class FrogFeed { |
|  }                        |
+---------------------------+
```
#### 2. `protected` access modifier

> The `protected` access modifier can't actually be applied to classes, but it can be used with methods, constructors and data members, so we'll look at it here, and start by understanding how we organise classes in packages and files.

Reviewer: Okay, see, this isn't strictly speaking true. We can use `protected` on nested classes. E.g.

```java

public class Foo {
    protected class Bar {
        // this is OK
    }
}
```
 I think it might be worth to mention that we're oversimplifying here.

The way we organise our classes is through files, packages and folders.

> We've already seen how .java files contain the classes, and you're probably familiar with folders (or directories) because your computer's Operating System uses these to create a hierarchy for storing files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've already seen how `.java` files contain the classes, and you're probably familiar with folders (or directories) because your computer's operating system uses these to create a hierarchy for storing files.
```

> Packages are exactly the same as folders, with the only difference being that they are the folders within the `src` folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packages are exactly the same as folders, with the only difference being that they are the folders relative to the sourcepath (Java-speak for what's usually the `src` or `src/main/java` folder):
```

```java
Documents
└── pizzeria                                <- folder
    └── src                                 <- folder
        └── com                             <- package
            └── example                     <- package
                ├── appliances              <- package
                │   ├── Oven.java
                │   └── Refrigerator.java
                ├── food                    <- package
                │   ├── Antipasti.java
                │   ├── Pasta.java
                │   ├── Pizza.java
                │   └── ingredients         <- package
                │       ├── Cheese.java
                │       ├── Flour.java
                │       └── Tomato.java
                └── restaurant              <- package
                    ├── Kitchen.java
                    └── Toilet.java
```
Packages are used for organising related classes, and to put a class in a package, you need to add the line

> `package `*packagename*`;`

Reviewer: I'm guessing this doesn't render the way you intended?
Might be best to use code blocks with Java syntax here.

as the very first instruction in the source file.
Typically you will see these in a format that has one or more identifiers separated by periods such as `java.util.random`.
The naming format here is trying to make sure that each name is unique, so as to avoid namespace collisions and is the same as with import naming.
For example, if I wanted to make use of the class `List`, I would find that there are quite a few:
![Namespace](assets/blog-01-hello-world-deconstructed/namespace.png)

> *which one do I want?* I have to specify, and this reversed naming format helps keep all of these classes and packages separate.

Reviewer: What part of this is reversed?

> When the `protected` access modifier is used, it signals that the method, constructors or data member is accessible both within and outside the package but through inheritance only.

Reviewer: Just to be clear, it is accessible within the package -- without the need for inheritance. Also, the inheritance only works down, i.e. a superclass cannot see a `protected` method in a subclass in a different package.

#### 3. `package private` access modifier

> When no named package statements are included in a source file, then the classes will be placed in the *default package*.

Reviewer: I think we might be conflating two unrelated terms here.

The default package, i.e. the package your code lives in if you don't create a package and don't have the `package com.whatever` at the top, is entirely unrelated to the default (package private) access modifier. This default package is generally discouraged. On the other hand, I encourage the use of the default access modifier.

The default modifier is accessible only within package.

```java
    ├── food                    <- package
    │   ├── Antipasti.java
    │   ├── Pasta.java
    │   ├── Pizza.java
    │   └── ingredients         <- package
    │       ├── Cheese.java
    │       ├── Flour.java
    │       └── Tomato.java
```

If all the classes in the above situation were given the `package private` access modifier, then the class, field, method or constructor of the food package (Antipasti, Pasta and Pizza classe) would have no accessiblity to the class, field, method or constructor of the ingredients package (Cheese, Flour and Tomato classes).

#### 4. `private` access modifier

The `private` access modifier gives us the opportunity to permit or deny the linking of low-level components with each other, and is more often found on fields and methods, rather than on classes.
A field or method that is marked as private will only allow code inside the same class to access the field, or call the method - it keeps everything very contained in the class.
This means that code inside subclasses or external classes cannot access the fields or methods that are designated as `private`.

> ```java

Reviewer: I wholeheartedly approve of this message...

Is what I would like to say but the getter and setter kind of comes out of the blue. Maybe change the code to look more like a private field `private String intentions = "make collusion great again";`, and a public method:

```java
public String getIntentions() {
    return "NO COLLUSION!!!!!";
}
```

I think this way the encapsulation is more obvious.

## Term 6: The `return type`

The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is the underlying entity on your computer that converts Java code into something meaningful that your computer can understand and run.
One of the first steps in converting the source code into byte code and from that into machine code is compilation.
The JVM needs to compile the source code, and in order to make head and tails of your code when it's compiling it needs to know the type of every variable or object during this process.
For this reason, we say that Java is a `statically typed` programming language.
We call upon methods to perform some kind of action or logical process, and, apart from the `void` type, the method will `return` a value or object.
In the case of this main method, we are not making use of a returned value or object, but instead using a print of the screen to the console as a side-effect.
We can summarise by saying that `void` is the absence of a return type.

## Term 7: The `main` method

 In order to run a program, the JVM requires an entry point, or starting point.
 The `main` method is the entry point for this Java program.

>  You would not be able to start the HelloWorld program if you renamed this method to anything other that `main` - it is that crucial for the JVM.

Reviewer: Maybe mention here that the class doesn't need to be called Main however.

The `main` method accepts a single argument and in this particular case, the `type` of the `args` is an array of String.
This `String[] args` is a mechanism that allows us to pass runtime information to the program, and we also refer to this as the command line arguments.
We can access the different indicies of the array with the `arrayName[arrayIndex]` syntax.
I've modified the original HelloWorld program to demonstrate some simple uses of String arrays:
```java
import java.util.Arrays;

public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        HelloWorld helloWorld = new HelloWorld();
        helloWorld.arrayDemonstrator();
    }

    private void arrayDemonstrator() {
        String[] contents = new String[]{"Hello", "World"};
        System.out.println("The contents of contents is: " + Arrays.toString(contents));
        System.out.println("The length of contents is: " + contents.length);
        System.out.println("The zeroth index of contents is: " + contents[0]);
    }
}
```
Which will print out:
```
The contents of args is: [Hello, World]
The length of args is: 2
The zeroth index of args is: Hello
```

## Term 9: The `argument variable`

> This `args` argument variable must be included as boilerplate, even though it isn't used within the method body.

Reviewer: Cool. I wasn't sure if the `args` bit was actually required. TIL
